<!-- Source: https://m3.material.io/components/chips/guidelines -->
<!-- Scraped: 2026-04-20T18:08:08.039Z -->

There are four variants of chips: Assist, filter, input, and suggestion

## Usage

Chips help people enter information, make selections, filter content, or trigger actions. They're best used to help people accomplish their current task faster and easier.
Chips appear as a group of interactive elements

### Chips aren’t buttons

Chips and 
    
    buttons
    
      Buttons let people take action and make choices with one tap. 
    
      
            More on buttons
          
   are similar. They both provide visual cues to prompt people to take actions and make selections.
While buttons appear consistently and with familiar calls to action, chips are dynamic to the situation, and appear as a group of interactive elements.
Use chips to enhance a person's current journey and encourage action. Use buttons to progress them through the product and for significant actions.
check
Use chips to present contextual, supplemental options
close
Don’t
Avoid replacing major actions with chips. Actions that progress people to the next or previous step should always be displayed as buttons.
Chips should dynamically offer various actions depending on the current task, whereas a button should be a persistent fixture of a layout.
Chips represent forking paths for a current task, while buttons represent linear steps.
check
Use buttons for the final step in a task
close
Don’t
Avoid using chips to finish or progress a task
Multiple chips should appear together in a set, whereas there should be no more than 3 buttons in a single arrangement.
Chip sets can be scrolled horizontally.
check
Chips can be scrolled horizontally
close
Don’t
Don’t display a single chip by itself. Chips should appear in a set.

### Variants

Choose the chip variant based on its purpose and author.
Does the chip represent an action (assist chip) or filter results (filter chip)?
Is its content generated by the product (suggestion chip), or by the person using the product (input chip)?
There are four chip variants:
- Assist
- Filter
- Input
- Suggestion
| Purpose | Chip variant | Rationale | Example |
| Action | Assist chip | Assist chips represent smart or automated actions that can span multiple apps | Add to calendar action |
| Filter | Filter chip | Filter chips represent filters for a collection | Platform selector on material.io/components |
| Information, user-authored | Input chip | Input chips represent discrete pieces of information entered by a person | Gmail contact in the To field |
| Information, product-authored | Suggestion chip | Suggestion chips help narrow a person’s intent by presenting dynamically-generated suggestions | Suggested chat response |

## Anatomy

- Container
- Label text
- Leading icon or image (optional)
- Trailing icon (required for input chips, optional for filter chips)
All chips are slightly rounded with an 8dp corner.
Chips have rounded corners
Shadows & elevation
Chip containers can be elevated if placed on top of an image or dynamic background.
When on complicated backgrounds, chip containers can be elevated
check
Use an outline to define the edge of the chip's container on regular backgrounds
check
Chips may use elevation when placed on an image
close
Don’t
Chips shouldn't be elevated when placed directly on the page
close
Don’t
Avoid using elevation to indicate a chip's pressed state. Instead, use the visual ripple effect.
Chip label text should be 20 characters or fewer, and have the same typography style as 
    
    buttons
    
      Buttons let people take action and make choices with one tap.
    
      
            More on buttons
          
  .
Chip labels should remain brief for the limited space available. Skip conventional grammar rules, such as articles (take "a" walk), to save space.
check
Keep chip labels short
close
Don’t
Avoid chip labels longer than 20 characters
Chips can contain a leading icon, logo, or circular image. Use a system icon to help identify a chip's category.
Chips can contain a logo, icon, or circular image
The leading icon color for unselected chips can be customized through theming. While the default 
    
    color role
    
      Color roles are assigned to UI elements based on emphasis, container type, and relationship with other elements. This ensures proper contrast and usage in any color scheme.
    
      
            More on color roles
          
   is primary, the on surface variant color role is a good alternative when the icon style requires less emphasis.
Primary color (left) and on surface variant color (right)
Leading circular images are sized larger than leading icons to provide more space for detail. Icons are designed to be legible at small sizes.
See the Specs tab for precise measurement values.
Leading images, such as avatars, are sized larger than leading icons or logos

### Trailing icon (optional, input and filter chips only)

The trailing icon is present for input and 
    
    filter chips
    
      Filter chips use tags or descriptive words to filter content. They can be a good alternative to toggle buttons or checkboxes.
    
      
  .
On input chips, it's required and must be used to remove the chip. On filter chips, it's optional, and can be used to open a menu or remove the chip.
Secondary actions (such as a trailing icon button for Remove) must have a 48x48dp interaction target that doesn’t interfere with the chip's primary action (such as Edit or Drag). To achieve this, apply a minimum width of 88dp to the chip, or 42dp to the label text.
Interaction targets for actions like Edit or Close have a size of 48x48. This can be achieved by setting the minimum container width to 88dp.

## Assist chips

Assist chips represent smart or automated actions that can span multiple apps, such as opening a calendar event from the home screen. Assist chips function as though the person asked an assistant to complete the action. They should appear dynamically and contextually in a UI.
An alternative to assist chips are 
    
    buttons
    
      Buttons let people take action and make choices with one tap.
    
      
            More on buttons
          
  , which should appear persistently and consistently.
The text in most assist chips begins with a short verb, like Get or Add
An assist chip can surface supplemental information like a calendar event, as well as provide contextual actions
During an interaction, assist chips can transform into modals, transition into full-screen views of new content, or readjust to display more results inline
Assist chips can trigger an action or show progress and confirmation.
Write assist chips like buttons: start with a verb. Adjust text dynamically if the state changes, like Save to Saved.
Tapping an assist chip triggers a contextual action
Assist chips can show progress and confirmation feedback
Assist chips are displayed after primary content, such as below a 
    
    card
    
      Cards display content and actions about a single subject.
    
      
            More on cards
          
   or persistently at the bottom of a screen.
Assist chips should be shown underneath primary content

## Filter chips

Filter chips use tags or descriptive words to filter content. They can be a good alternative to 
    
    segmented buttons
    
      Segmented buttons help people select options, switch views, or sort elements.
    
      
            More on segmented buttons
          
   or 
    
    checkboxes
    
      Checkboxes let users select one or more items from a list, or turn an item on or off.
    
      
            More on checkboxes
          
   when viewing a list or search results.
Tapping on a filter chip activates it and appends a leading checkmark icon to the starting edge of the chip label.
Write filter chips with nouns that describe the category to include in the results. Avoid negative phrases like Exclude images.
Filter chips rely on tags or descriptive words to filter content
Filter chips in a shopping app
Filter chips in a real estate app
Tap a chip to select it. Multiple chips can be selected or unselected.
An icon can be added to indicate when a filter chip is selected
Filter chip suggestions can dynamically change as a person starts to select filters
Alternatively, a single chip can be selected. This offers an alternative to 
    
    segmented buttons
    
      Segmented buttons help people select options, switch views, or sort elements.
    
      
            More on segmented buttons
          
  , 
    
    radio buttons
    
      Radio buttons let people select one option from a set of options.
    
      
            More on radio buttons
          
  , or single select 
    
    menus
    
      Menus display a list of choices on a temporary surface.
    
      
            More on menus
          
  .
However, avoid mixing chip set behaviors. All chip sets on a page should be either single-select or multi-select.
Filter chips can be set so that selecting a single chip automatically deselects all other chips in the set
In 
    
    medium
    
      Window widths from 600dp to 839dp, such as a tablet or foldable in portrait orientation.
    
      
            More on medium window size class
          
   and 
    
    expanded window sizes
    
      Window widths 840dp to 1199dp, such as a tablet or foldable in landscape orientation, or desktop.
    
      
            More on expanded window size class
          
  , filter chips may contain a trailing icon to directly remove the chip or open a menu of options.
In 
    
    compact windows
    
      Window widths smaller than 600dp, such as a phone in portrait orientation.
    
      
            More on compact window size class
          
  , the trailing icon's target area is too small to be accessible on its own. However, if the whole chip can be selected to accomplish the action, the chip is likely still accessible.
The remove icon helps users remove the filter
Filter chips can open a menu for more filtering options
When combined with a 
    
    menu
    
      Menus display a list of choices on a temporary surface.
    
      
            More on menus
          
  , the filter chip opens a list of selectable options.
exclamation
Caution
In compact windows, make sure the whole chip opens the menu. Otherwise, the target area is likely too small to be accessible.
Filter chips can be used with other components, such as 
    
    search
    
      Search lets people enter a keyword or phrase to get relevant information.
    
      
            More on search
          
   fields and 
    
    sheets
    
      Side sheets show secondary content anchored to the side of the screen.
    
      
            More on side sheets
          
  .
Filter chips can be shown underneath a search field
Use a side sheet to organize many filter chips
Filter chips can wrap to a new row. If there are more than two rows, consider using horizontal scrolling to access them all.
Filter chips can scroll horizontally to show many options
close
Don’t
Filter chips should not present only a single option

## Input chips

Input chips represent discrete pieces of information entered by a person, such as Gmail contacts or filter options within a 
    
    search
    
      Search lets people enter a keyword or phrase to get relevant information.
    
      
            More on search
          
   field.
They enable user input and verify that input by converting text into chips.
Input chips transform text based on a person's input
Input chips can support editing to change their contents, such as correcting an email address. In edit mode, the chip reverts back to a text string. Editing can be triggered by interacting with the chip, either by selecting it or by a second interaction after selection.
Input chips converted from email addresses are editable
Using the backspace key with the cursor before a chip selects the entire chip. The chip can then be deleted when the user taps the backspace key again.
A single field can contain multiple 
    
    input chips
    
      Input chips represent discrete pieces of information entered by a user, such as Gmail contacts or filter options within a search field.
    
      
  . These chips can be reordered or moved into other fields.
Multiple input chips in one field
Input chips being moved from one field to another
Input chips can expand to show more information or options. A container transform transition pattern is used to reveal additional content.
Input chips can expand

### Placement

Input chips can be integrated with other components.
They can appear:
- Inline with the cursor in a text field
- In a stacked list
- In a list that can be horizontally scrolled
Input chips can wrap to a new row if all chips need to be visible
Input chips can scroll horizontally

### Icons & images

The leading icon of input chips can be an icon, logo, or circular image.
Input chips can contain an icon, logo, or circular image
The trailing icon is always aligned to the end side of the container. It’s placed:
- On the right for left-to-right (LTR) languages, such as English
- On the left for right-to-left (RTL) languages, such as Farsi
Input chips can be a more flexible way to filter search results, compared to filter chips
Input chips make it easier to add and remove contacts
Overflowed chips in a text field should follow the same behavior as regular text. An unfocused text field with overflowed content should display the beginning of the input. Tapping the field snaps the user to the end of the input with the cursor and keyboard active.

## Suggestion chips

Suggestion chips help narrow a user’s intent by presenting dynamically generated suggestions, such as possible responses or search filters.
Write suggestion chips as nouns or short phrases, depending on context. Avoid exceeding 20 characters when possible.
The text labels within suggestion chips are most often nouns or short phrases
Suggestion chips can offer quick-reply options in a chat or email app
A suggestion chip can help the user start a search
When displaying multiple chips together, place them inline as a row of options, not listed vertically. Overflowing chips should break to the next line.
If the field is only one row high, chip sets can scroll horizontally instead.
Keep an 8dp minimum space between chips. Chips must also have a minimum 48dp target size, regardless of placement or density. If required, the target can extend beyond the visible container of the chip.
Text labels for chips should be concise. Chip labels will truncate when in a wrapped layout, and when they are wider than the full width of the window.
- Margins between chips
- Margin between each line
